Blog: how we spend out marketing budget 2026 edition (#17894)
PostHog/posthog.com: contents/founders/actual-marketing-budget-2026.md

---

> date: 2026-06-25

Reviewer: ```suggestion
date: 2026-06-24
```

> title: How we're spending our 2026 marketing budget at PostHog (with actual $ figures)

Reviewer: PostHog is already in the slug and open graph image so I don't think we need to include it in the title
```suggestion
title: How we're spending our marketing budget in 2026 (with actual $ figures)
```

author:
  - charles-cook
featuredImage: >-
  https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/posthog.com/contents/images/blog/transparency.jpeg
featuredImageType: full
tags:
  - Founders
  - Marketing
crosspost:
  - Blog
---

> It still really annoys me that no one is willing to talk about how much they _actually_ spend on marketing in startup-land. I wrote about it [in 2023](/founders/actual-marketing-budget), but nothing's changed, so here I am again, but with more budget to talk about. 

Reviewer: We should add a backlink from `/founders/actual-marketing-budget` to this blog saying we did an updated version

Author: will follow up!

So how much does a typical scale-up [like PostHog](/about) spend on marketing. And why doesn’t anyone talk about it?

> “But Charles, you naive idiot” asked nobody but in 2026 now, “surely competitors will use this information against you?”

Reviewer: I don't understand that middle bit
```suggestion
“But Charles, you naive idiot, surely competitors will use this information against you?”
```

> Um, sure I guess? But especially if you’re into product-led growth (like we are), how you spend marketing $ seems pretty far down the list of competitive advantages. We're open source and we already [tell everyone](/roadmap) what we’re going to build next, and that doesn’t seem to have hurt us so far. 

Reviewer: too many "ands" in that sentence 
```suggestion
Um, sure I guess? But especially if you’re into product-led growth (like we are), how you spend marketing $ seems pretty far down the list of competitive advantages. We're open source and we already tell everyone [our strategy](/handbook] and [what we’re going to build next](/roadmap). That doesn’t seem to have hurt us so far. 
```

By sharing some of this info, I’m hoping it’ll help others as a data point. **I am not saying this is the best way to spend your marketing budget.** I have no idea! That’s the point!! But I’m hoping _maybe_ someone will see this and tell us how we could do better...

See you in 3 years?

## But first, some context...

Startups are different (woah, much insight!) 

Here's some background about PostHog before you start copying this stuff and then sending me angry messages when this tanks your company:

- AI platform that makes your product self-driving

> - 200 people, $194m raised

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- 215 people, $194m raised
```

- Team is mostly engineers, product-led growth with a bit of sales-led
- Post product-market fit, scaling rapidly

Let’s get into it. 

## Show me the money

Our typical monthly marketing spend looks like this:

- **People: $210k per month** (3x vs. 2023)
  - Marketing: 4 product marketers  + 1 influencer manager
  - Editorial: 3 content marketers + 1 social media manager

>   - YouTube: 2 producers + 1 developer advocate

Reviewer: I think you are missing Andy somewhere in here unless I'm counting wrong

Author: lol I so am

Author: I've fudged it and put him in YouTube

>   - YouTube: 2 producers + 1 developer advocate

Author: ```suggestion
  - YouTube: lead + 2 producers + 1 developer advocate
```

  - Events: 2 events managers
  - Docs & Wizard: 3 context engineers
  - Demand gen: 1 performance marketer + 1 copywriter
  - Graphics: 3 designers
  - 1 exec who mostly gets in the way
- **Not people: ~$1m per month** (13x vs. 2023)
  - Tools & subscriptions: $5,000
  - Paid ads: $488,000
  - Video: $45,000
  - Editorial freelancers: $30,000
  - Sponsorships (newsletters & influencers): $228,000
  - Out of home (ie. billboards): $67,000
  - Merch: $60,000
  - Events: $65,000
  - Do more weird: $45,000
  - PR: $0

> - **Total: ~$1.2m per month**

Reviewer: I think these indented lists don't render nicely so this might be better.

Also editorial freelancers seems off no?
```suggestion
Our typical monthly marketing spend looks like this.

**People: $210k per month** (3x vs. 2023):

- Marketing: 4 product marketers  + 1 influencer manager
- Editorial: 3 content marketers + 1 social media manager
- YouTube: 2 producers + 1 developer advocate
- Events: 2 events managers
- Docs & Wizard: 3 context engineers
- Demand gen: 1 performance marketer + 1 copywriter
- Graphics: 3 designers
- 1 exec who mostly gets in the way

**Not people: ~$1m per month** (13x vs. 2023):

- Tools & subscriptions: $5,000
- Paid ads: $488,000
- Video: $45,000
- Editorial freelancers: $20,000
- Sponsorships (newsletters & influencers): $228,000
- Out of home (ie. billboards): $67,000
- Merch: $60,000
- Events: $65,000
- Do more weird: $45,000
- PR: $0

**Total: ~$1.2m per month**
```

Author: I was including Chris in the editorial freelancer line

### Some notes

- We are in the middle of repositioning PostHog as the platform that makes your product [self-driving](/blog/what-if-your-product-built-itself). This means we are thinking a lot more about awareness, especially as we've seen our [ICP](/handbook/who-we-build-for) changing. 

- We do a lot of things in-house that other companies would probably use freelancers for. We're not _averse_ to freelancers, but given how important brand marketing is to PostHog, it has been worth it for us to over-invest here. 

> - <SmallTeam slug="website" /> is its own team at PostHog), but I appreciate at most companies your website will be considered a marketing expense (we disagree - treat your website like a product!)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- <SmallTeam slug="website" /> is its own team at PostHog, but I appreciate at most companies your website will be considered a marketing expense (we disagree - treat your website like a product!)
```

> If you want to learn more about how we implement these things in practice at PostHog, it’s all in our [public handbook](/handbook/marketing). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want to learn more about how we implement these things in practice, it’s all in our [public handbook](/handbook/marketing). 
```

> ## What we’ve changed recently

Reviewer: Budget for events in 2023 was zero so might be worth touching on what's changed there?

> In the last 9 months, we've roughly doubled the marketing teams, including hiring many first people in their role such as influencer manager, dev advocate for YouTube, copywriter, and social media manager (and we've gone form 1 to 4 product marketers). An extremely obvious observation - you need to hire people in order to be able to spend more money (unless you are keen to just set money on fire). You can just turn up the magic marketing budget dial and expect results. For example, we did a bit of influencer marketing as a side project before hiring, but it would have been pointless to increase the budget for the sake of it even though it was 'working'. Our general framework for any new marketing channel is, broadly:

Reviewer: > but it would have been pointless to increase the budget for the sake of it even though it was 'working'. 

This feels a bit unsatisfying, needs a more specific why. 

it was pointless because spending the increased budget would just require a lot more work to find new influencers to spend it on.

```suggestion
In the last 9 months, we've roughly doubled the marketing teams, including hiring many first people in their role such as influencer manager, dev advocate for YouTube, copywriter, and social media manager (and we've gone form 1 to 4 product marketers). 

An extremely obvious observation - you need to hire people to be able to spend more money (unless you are keen to just set money on fire). You can't just turn up the magic marketing budget dial and expect results. For example, we did influencer marketing as a side project before hiring, but it would have been pointless to increase the budget for the sake of it even though it was 'working'. 

Our general framework for any new marketing channel is, broadly:
```

1. Have someone try it as a side project, give them a bit of budget.
2. Use this to decide if the thing broadly works.
3. Hire someone dedicated who is really good at that thing.
4. Give them lots of budget. 

> We've also shifted our budget more broadly from 80/20 conversion/awareness focus to 60/40. The line between the two buckets is blurry, but generally marketing designed to get folks to sign up to PostHog directly we consider to be conversion-focused, whereas stuff that is purely to make people aware that PostHog exists we call... awareness. For the second half of 2026, we also shuffled budget around a bit to invest more heavily in the stuff that is really working. We're doubling down on influencer marketing and merch in particular, and have also added a new line for [do more weird](/handbook/company/do-more-weird) which _anyone_ at PostHog can use. This will hopefully help us keep things fresh and not accidentally creep into the pure-ROI-based marketing that sucks the life out of companies as they scale. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We've also shifted our budget more broadly from 80/20 conversion/awareness focus to 60/40. The line between the two buckets is blurry, but generally marketing designed to get folks to sign up to PostHog directly we consider to be conversion-focused, whereas stuff that is purely to make people aware that PostHog exists we call... awareness. 

For the second half of 2026, we also shuffled budget around a bit to invest more heavily in the stuff that is really working. We're doubling down on influencer marketing and merch in particular, and have also added a new line for [do more weird](/handbook/company/do-more-weird) which _anyone_ at PostHog can use. This will hopefully help us keep things fresh and not accidentally creep into the pure-ROI-based marketing that sucks the life out of companies as they scale. 
```

> Oh and did you know we're hiring? Probably only 3-4 more people into marketing this year, but keep an eye out on our [careers page](/careers)!

## What do you think?

Are the figures what you expected? Should we be spending more money somewhere else? Are we doing something very stupid? 

Let me know!

## Moar reading

- [The do's and don'ts of minimum viable product marketing](/blog/minimum-viable-product-marketing)
- [How to grow your AEO function (without losing your mind)](/blog/aeo-advice)

> - [40 things we’ve learned about marketing for developers](https://posthog.com/newsletter/marketing-for-devs)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [40 things we’ve learned about marketing for developers](/newsletter/marketing-for-devs)
```

> - Check out [PostHog’s marketing handbook](/handbook/marketing) – and copy it if you want to!

Reviewer: I think we already mention this a couple times so we don't need to include it
```suggestion
```

- PR: $0

**Total: ~$1.2m per month**

### Some notes

- We are in the middle of repositioning PostHog as the platform that makes your product [self-driving](/blog/what-if-your-product-built-itself). This means we are thinking a lot more about awareness, especially as we've seen our [ICP](/handbook/who-we-build-for) changing. 

- We do a lot of things in-house that other companies would probably use freelancers for. We're not _averse_ to freelancers, but given how important brand marketing is to PostHog, it has been worth it for us to over-invest here. 

- <SmallTeam slug="website" /> is its own team at PostHog, but I appreciate at most companies your website will be considered a marketing expense (we disagree - treat your website like a product!)

If you want to learn more about how we implement these things in practice, it’s all in our [public handbook](/handbook/marketing). 

## What we’ve changed recently

In the last 9 months, we've roughly doubled the marketing teams, including hiring many first people in their role such as influencer manager, dev advocate for YouTube, copywriter, and social media manager (and we've gone form 1 to 4 product marketers). 

> An extremely obvious observation - you need to hire people to be able to spend more money (unless you are keen to just set money on fire). You can't just turn up the magic marketing budget dial and expect results. For example, we did influencer marketing as a side project before hiring, but it would have been pointless to increase the budget for the sake of it even though it was 'working'. 

Author: ```suggestion
An extremely obvious observation - you need to hire people to be able to spend more money (unless you are keen to just set money on fire). You can't just turn up the magic marketing budget dial and expect results. For example, we did influencer marketing as a side project before hiring, but it would have been pointless to increase the budget for the sake of it even though it was 'working'. Events turned out to be  very difficult to do on the side, so we didn't spend anything on them until we hired our first person there. 
```
